# Introduction to Google Professional Cloud Architect Exam

1. You have been tasked with interviewing line-of-business owners about their needs for a new cloud application. Which of the following do you expect to find?

    - A comprehensive list of defined business and technical requirements
    - That their business requirements do not have a one-to-one correlation with technical requirements
    - Business and technical requirements in conflict
    - Clear consensus on all requirements
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option B is correct. Business requirements are high-level, business-oriented requirements that are rarely satisfied by meeting a single technical requirement. Option A is incorrect because business sponsors rarely have sufficient understanding of technical requirements to provide a comprehensive list. Option C is incorrect because business requirements constrain technical options but should not be in conflict. Option D is incorrect because there is rarely a clear consensus on all requirements. Part of an architect's job is to help stakeholders reach a consensus.
    </details>
    </br>

2. You have been asked by stakeholders to suggest ways to reduce operational expenses as part of a cloud migration project. Which of the following would you recommend?

    - Managed services, preemptible machines, access controls
    - Managed services, preemptible machines, autoscaling
    - NoSQL databases, preemptible machines, autoscaling
    - NoSQL databases, preemptible machines, access controls
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option B is correct. Managed services relieve DevOps work, preemptible machines cost significantly less than standard VMs, and autoscaling reduces the chances of running unnecessary resources. Options A and D are incorrect because access controls will not help reduce costs, but they should be used anyway. Options C and D are incorrect because there is no indication that a NoSQL database should be used.
    </details>
    </br>

3. Some executives are questioning your recommendation to employ continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD). What reasons would you give to justify your recommendation?

    - CI/CD supports small releases, which are easier to debug and enable faster feedback.
    - CI/CD is used only with preemptible machines and therefore saves money.
    - CI/CD fits well with waterfall methodology but not agile methodologies.
    - CI/CD limits the number of times code is released.
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option A is correct. CI/CD supports small releases, which are easier to debug and enable faster feedback. Option B is incorrect, as CI/CD does not use only preemptible machines. Option C is incorrect because CI/CD works well with agile methodologies. Option D is incorrect, as there is no limit to the number of times new versions of code can be released.
    </details>
    </br>

4. The finance director has asked your advice about complying with a document retention regulation. What kind of service-level objective (SLO) would you recommend to ensure that the finance director will be able to retrieve sensitive documents for at least the next seven years? When a document is needed, the finance director will have up to seven days to retrieve it. The total storage required will be approximately 100 TB.
    
    - High availability SLO
    - Durability SLO
    - Reliability SLO
    - Scalability SLO
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option B is correct. The finance director needs to have access to documents for seven years. This requires durable storage. Option A is incorrect because the access does not have to be highly available; as long as the finance director can access the document in a reasonable period of time, the requirement can be met. Option C is incorrect because reliability is a measure of being available to meet workload demands successfully. Option D is incorrect because the requirement does not specify the need for increasing and decreasing storage to meet the requirement.
    </details>
    </br>

5. You are facilitating a meeting of business and technical managers to solicit requirements for a cloud migration project. The term incident comes up several times. Some of the business managers are unfamiliar with this term in the context of IT. How would you describe an incident?

    - A disruption in the ability of a DevOps team to complete work on time
    - A disruption in the ability of the business managers to approve a project plan on schedule
    - A disruption that causes a service to be degraded or unavailable
    - A personnel problem on the DevOps team
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. An incident in the context of IT operations and service reliability is a disruption that degrades or stops a service from functioning. Options A and B are incorrect—incidents are not related to scheduling. Option D is incorrect; in this context, incidents are about IT services, not personnel.
    </details>
    </br>

6. You have been asked to consult on a cloud migration project that includes moving private medical information to a storage system in the cloud. The project is for a company in the United States. What regulation would you suggest that the team review during the requirements-gathering stages?

    - General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)
    - Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX)
    - Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
    - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option D is correct. HIPAA governs, among other things, privacy and data protections for private medical information. Option A is incorrect, as GDPR is a European Union regulation. Option B is incorrect, as SOX is a U.S. financial reporting regulation. Option C is incorrect, as PCI DSS is a payment card industry regulation.
    </details>
    </br>

7. You are in the early stages of gathering business and technical requirements. You have noticed several references about needing up-to-date and consistent information regarding product inventory and support for SQL reporting tools. Inventory is managed on a global scale, and the warehouses storing inventory are located in North America, Africa, Europe, and Asia. Which managed database solution in Google Cloud would you include in your set of options for an inventory database?
    
    - Cloud Storage
    - BigQuery
    - Cloud Spanner
    - Microsoft SQL Server
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. Cloud Spanner is a globally consistent, horizontally scalable relational database. Option A is incorrect. Cloud Storage does not support SQL. Option B is incorrect because BigQuery is an analytical database used for data warehousing and related operations. Option D is incorrect; Microsoft SQL Server is a Cloud SQL database option, and Cloud SQL is a managed database, but Cloud SQL scales regionally, not globally.
    </details>
    </br>

8. A developer at Mountkirk Games is interested in how architects decide which database to use. The developer describes a use case that requires a document store. The developer would rather not manage database servers or have to run backups. What managed service would you suggest the developer consider?
    
    - Cloud Firestore
    - Cloud Spanner
    - Cloud Storage
    - BigQuery
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option A is correct. Cloud Firestore is a managed document database and a good fit for storing documents. Option B is incorrect because Cloud Spanner is a relational database and globally scalable. There is no indication that the developer needs a globally scalable solution, which implies higher cost. Option C is incorrect, as Cloud Storage is an object storage system, not a managed database. Option D is incorrect because BigQuery is an analytical database designed for data warehousing and similar applications.
    </details>
    </br>

9. Members of your company's legal team are concerned about using a public cloud service because other companies, organizations, and individuals will be running their systems in the same cloud. You assure them that your company's resources will be isolated and not network-accessible to others because of what networking resource in Google Cloud?
    
    - CIDR blocks
    - Direct connections
    - Virtual private clouds
    - Cloud Pub/Sub
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. VPCs isolate cloud resources from resources in other VPCs, unless VPCs are intentionally linked. Option A is incorrect because a CIDR block has to do with subnet IP addresses. Option B is incorrect, as direct connections are for transmitting data between a data center and Google Cloud—it does not protect resources in the cloud. Option D is incorrect because Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service, not a networking service.
    </details>
    </br>

10. A startup has recently migrated to Google Cloud using a lift-and-shift migration. They are now considering replacing a self-managed MySQL database running in Compute Engine with a managed service. Which Google Cloud service would you recommend that they consider?

    - Cloud Dataproc
    - Cloud Dataflow
    - Cloud SQL
    - PostgreSQL
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. Cloud SQL offers a managed MySQL service. Options A and B are incorrect, as neither is a database. Cloud Dataproc is a managed Hadoop and Spark service. Cloud Dataflow is a stream and batch processing service. Option D is incorrect, because PostgreSQL is another relational database, but it is not a managed service. PostgreSQL is an option in Cloud SQL, however.
    </details>
    </br>

11. Which of the following requirements from a customer make you think the application should run in Compute Engine and not App Engine?

    - Dynamically scale up or down based on workload
    - Connect to a database
    - Run a hardened Linux distro on a virtual machine
    - Don't lose data
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. In Compute Engine, you create virtual machines and choose which operating system to run. All other requirements can be realized in App Engine.
    </details>
    </br>

12. Mountkirk Games wants to store player game data in a time-series database. Which Google Cloud managed database would you recommend?

    - Bigtable
    - BigQuery
    - Cloud Storage
    - Cloud Dataproc
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option A is correct. Cloud Bigtable is a scalable, wide-column database designed for low-latency writes, making it a good choice for time-series data. Option B is incorrect because BigQuery is an analytic database not designed for the high volume of low-latency writes that will need to be supported. Options C and D are not managed databases.
    </details>
    </br>

13. The original video captured during helicopter races by the Helicopter Racing League are transcoded and stored for frequent access. The original captured videos are not used for viewing but are stored in case they are needed for unanticipated reasons. The files require high durability but are not likely to be accessed more than once in a five-year period. What type of storage would you use for the original video files?

    - BigQuery Long Term Storage
    - BigQuery Active Storage
    - Cloud Storage Nearline class
    - Cloud Storage Archive class
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option D is correct. Cloud Storage Archive class is the most cost-effective option and meets durability requirements. Option C is incorrect; Cloud Storage Nearline class would meet durability requirements, but since the videos are likely accessed less than once per year, Cloud Storage Archive class would meet durability requirements and cost less. Options A and B are incorrect because videos are large binary objects best stored in object storage, not an analytical database such as BigQuery.
    </details>
    </br>

14. The game analytics platform for Mountkirk Games requires analysts to be able to query up to 10 TB of data. What is the best managed database solution for this requirement?

    - Cloud Spanner
    - BigQuery
    - Cloud Storage
    - Cloud Dataprep
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option B is correct. This is a typical use case for BigQuery, and it fits well with its capabilities as an analytic database. Option A is incorrect, as Cloud Spanner is best used for transaction processing on a global scale. Options C and D are not managed databases. Cloud Storage is an object storage service; Cloud Dataprep is a tool for preparing data for analysis.
    </details>
    </br>


15. EHR Healthcare business requirements frequently discuss the need to improve observability in their systems. Which of the following Google Cloud Platform services could be used to help improve observability?

    - Cloud Build and Artifact Registry
    - Cloud Pub/Sub and Cloud Dataflow
    - Cloud Monitoring and Cloud Logging
    - Cloud Storage and Cloud Pub/Sub
    </br></br>
    <details>
        <summary>Correct Answer</summary>
        Option C is correct. Cloud Monitoring collects metrics, and Cloud Logging collects event data from infrastructure, services, and other applications that provide insight into the state of those systems. Cloud Build and Artifact Registry are important CI/CD services. Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service, Cloud Dataflow is a batch and stream processing service, and Cloud Storage is an object storage system; none of these directly supports improved observability.
    </details>
    </br>
